First pass at starter code. Instructions are in instructions.md (#4)
jaceva/react-challenge: instructions.md

# Build an Appointments App

## Overview

> This project is slightly different than others you have encountered thus far on Codecademy. Instead of a step-by-step tutorial, this project contains a series of open-ended requirements which describe the project you'll be building. There are many possible ways to correctly fulfill all of these requirements, and you should expect to use the internet, Codecademy, and other resources when you encounter a problem that you cannot easily solve.

Reviewer: Nick and I have been talking about editing this boilerplate overview for all challenge projects. The only change is removing the first sentence.

```suggestion
Instead of a step-by-step tutorial, this project contains a series of open-ended requirements which describe the project you'll be building. There are many possible ways to correctly fulfill all of these requirements, and you should expect to use the internet, Codecademy, and other resources when you encounter a problem that you cannot easily solve.
```

## Project Goals
In this project you will use functional React components to create an app that manages contacts and appointments. The app consists of two pages: one to view and add contacts and one to view and add appointments.

> 

Reviewer: Include the component tree diagram here with a bullet explaining each component.

Author: Done

You will work with stateful and stateless functional React components using hooks. The following task descriptions will walk through implementing the app from the top most component down. If you would like to implement it in a different order feel free to do what is comfortable for you.

## Setup Instructions

> If you choose to do this project on your computer instead of Codecademy, you can download what you'll need by clicking the "Download" button below. Inside the top directory run `npm install` and then `npm start` to run the app in your browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you choose to do this project on your computer instead of Codecademy, you can download what you'll need by clicking the "Download" button below. Make sure you have [Node installed on your computer](https://www.codecademy.com/articles/setting-up-node-locally) and then, inside the project's root directory, run `npm install`. Finally, run `npm start` which will automatically open up a new tab in your browser with your running application. If a new tab does not appear, you can visit [http://localhost:3000/](http://localhost:3000/).
```

## Task Group #1 Prerequisites
### Task #1 
To complete this project, you should have completed the Codecademy lessons from [Learn React](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/react-101) including:
- JSX
- Functional Components
- React Hooks
- Stateless vs. Stateful Components
- State sharing with parent, child and sibling components
- Container vs Presentational Components

> - React Forms  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- JSX
- React Components
- Components Interacting
- Stateless Components From Stateful Components
- Advanced React
- Hooks
```

## Task Group #2 Project Requirements

### Task #2 
The application code starts with **App.js**, **ContactsPage.js** and **AppointmentsPage.js**. These are the three stateful components you will work with in this project.

> `App` is a stateful component that handles the routing between the two pages, `ContactsPage` and `AppointmentsPage`. This is already implemented using [React Router](https://reactrouter.com/web/guides/quick-start).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`App` is a stateful component that handles the routing between the two pages, `ContactsPage` and `AppointmentsPage`. This is already implemented using [React Router](https://reactrouter.com/web/guides/quick-start).

> Note: You do not need to be familiar with React Router to complete this project.
```

> Based on the given requirements, implement `App` as a stateful component to handle the logic for the contacts and appointments data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Based on the given requirements, implement `App` as a stateful component that maintains appointments and contacts. It should also pass those values, along with callback functions to update those state values, to its child components.
```

> This component will:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this component:
```

- Keep track of the contacts and appointments data, each being an array of objects.

> - Define a function to add data to the contacts array

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Define a callback function that, given a name, phone number, and email, adds a new contact object with that data to the array of contacts. 
```

> - Define a function to add data to the appointments array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Define a callback function that, given a title, contact, date, and time, adds a new appointment object with that data to the array of appointments. 
```

> - Add the contacts array and the add contact function to the props of the `ContactsPage` component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Pass the array of contacts and the appropriate callback function as props to the `ContactsPage` component.
```

> - Add the appointments array, contacts array and the add appointment function to the props of `AppointmentsPage` component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Pass the appointments array, contacts array, and the add appointment function as props to the `AppointmentsPage` component.
```

### Hint

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To maintain state values in the `App` component:
```

- Add `{ useState }` to the `'react'` import statement
- Create empty arrays for contacts and appointments using `useState([])`

> - Set the new state with the setter function using the spread operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In the callback functions, set the new state with the setter function using the spread operator
```

```js
[...oldStateArray, newArrayObject]
```

### Task #3 

Based on the given requirements, implement `ContactsPage` as a stateful component to handle the logic for adding new contacts and listing current contacts.

This component will:

> - Have two props: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Recieve two props: 
```

Reviewer: Please change "have X props"  to "receive X props" for each task

Author: Done

  - The current list of contacts

>   - A function for adding a new contact

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - A callback function for adding a new contact
```

Reviewer: Double check how sub-bullets render in author.

> - Render a `ContactForm` and a `TileList`.

Reviewer: At this point, should they render these components with no props? Will they come back after finishing implementing these components?

Reviewer: Mention that they will implement these two components in later tasks. (For now, they should render them without props?)

> - Keep track of the current name, phone, and email entered into the form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Keep track of three local state values: the current name, phone, and email entered into the form.
```

- Check for duplicates whenever the name in the form changes and indicate the name is a duplicate.
- Only add a new contact on form submission if it does not duplicate an existing contact's name.
- A successful submission should clear the form.

### Hint

- Add `{ useState, useEffect }` to the `'react'` import statement
- Import `ContactForm` and `TileList`

> - Make `props` a function parameter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Extract the contacts array and the callback function for adding contacts from the passed `props` argument
```

Author: Confirm that this is covered in the exercises. Not in functional components, but shows up in useState hooks.

> - The contact info state variables should default to an empty string using `useState('')`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The three state variables holding the form's contact data should each default to an empty string using `useState('')`
```

> - The state variable to track a duplicate name should be set to false using `useState(false)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use a fourth local state variable to track a duplicate name. It should be `false` by default using `useState(false)`
```

> - Implement a call to `useEffect`, where the callback function sets the duplicate state variable to `true` if the name state variable is already in the contacts list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To check for duplicates, implement a call to `useEffect` that sets the duplicate state variable to `true` if the name state variable is already in the contacts list
```

> - An `if` statement should be added to `handleSubmit` that checks the duplicate state variable is `false`. The body of the `if` statement should call the add contact function in `props` and set the contact info state variables to `''` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Within `handleSubmit()`, if the duplicate state variable is `false`, call the callback function for adding a new contact (passed via `props`) using the data from the form. Then reset the contact info state variables to their default state.
```

### Task #4 

> Based on the given requirements, implement `ContactForm` as a stateless component that renders a web form to collect the necessary contact information.

Reviewer: I wonder if they should implement this first since it will be used in the ContactsPage? Otherwise, in Task 3 they'll have to render <ContactForm> with no information (yet) about what props ContactForm will need.

Reviewer: I do like that they implement the logic for in the container before implementing the presentational component... See my comment in ContactForm about leaving in the props.

This component will:
- Have 7 props: 
  - The variables for contact name, phone and email 
  - The setters for contact name, phone and email 

>   - The function that handles the form submission

Reviewer: I think you can specify the name, `handleSubmit` here since you've defined it for them.

```suggestion
  - The `handleSubmit` callback function that handles the form submission
```

- Render a `form` with:
  - The `onSubmit` attribute set
  - 3 controlled `input` components, one for each piece of contact data
  - A submit button
- Include a `pattern` attribute to the phone `input` with [a regex](https://regexlib.com/Search.aspx?k=phone&c=-1&m=-1&ps=20) that matches the phone locale of your preference.

### Hint

> - Make `props` a function parameter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Extract the 7 data values from the passed `props` argument
```

> - Use `<form onSubmit={props.handlerFunction} >` to create the html form

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use `<form onSubmit={callback} >` to create the html form, where `callback` is the function passed via `props` for handling the form submission
```

> - The children of the form should be `<input>`s of `type` `text`, `tel`, `email` and `submit`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The children of the form should be `<input>` elements, each with one of the following `type` attributes: `'text'`, `'tel'`, `'email'` and `'submit'`
```

> - The `value` attribute of the 3 controlled `input`s should be set to the associated variable in `props`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `value` attribute of the 3 controlled `input`s should be set to the associated variable passed via `props`
```

> - The `onChange` attributes of the 3 controlled `input`s should be set to a callback function that passes `e.target.value` to the the associated setter function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `onChange` attributes of the 3 controlled `input`s should be set to a callback function that passes `e.target.value` to the associated setter function from `props`
```

- One example of a phone regex is the US locale: `"[1-9][0-9]{2}-[1-9][0-9]{2}-[0-9]{4}"`

### Task #5 

Based on the given requirements, implement `TileList` as a stateless component that renders a list of `Tile` components using an array of objects.

> 

Reviewer: Could you add in a sentence or two explaining that:
* TileList` is a generic component that will be shared by the contacts page and the appointments page. 
* Each Tile will represent a single contact or appointment

This component will:

- Have one prop:
  - An array to render as a list

> - Use the array in props to iteratively render `Tile` components.
> - Add the objects in the array to the props of the `Tile` component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use the array passed via props to iteratively render `Tile` components, passing each object in the array as a prop to each rendered `Tile` component.
```

### Hint

- Import the `Tile` component

> - Make `props` a function parameter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Extract the array of objects to render as tiles from the `props` value passed as an argument to `TileList`
```

- Use the `map()` method on the array prop

> - The `map()` callback function has a data object and an index as parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `map()` callback function should have an object from the array as the first parameter and that object's index as the second parameter
```

> - The callback should return a `Tile` component with the data object added to `props` and set the component `key` to the index 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The callback should return a `Tile` component with the object parameter passed as a prop and the index parameter used as the component's `key`.
```

### Task #6 

> Based on the given requirements, implement `Tile` as a stateless component that renders the data from an object.

Reviewer: If you add the explanation of Tiles in the previous task, this may not be necessary, but it might be nice to re-iterate that the Tile is a generic component used to render either Contact information or appointment information

This component will:
- Have one prop: 
  - An object

> - Use the `Object.values()` [method](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_objects/Object/values) to iteratively render the data in the object.

Reviewer: They don't _have_ to use Object.values() but you can move it to the hints.
```suggestion
- Iterate over the values in the object, passed in via props, and render a `<p>` element for each value.
```

### Hint

> - Make `props` a function parameter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Extract the object from the `props` value passed as an argument to `Tile`
```

> - `map()` over the array of values from the object in `props` using `Object.values()`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You may use the `Object.values()` [method](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_objects/Object/values) to generate an array of the object's values and then use `map()` to iterate over the array.
```

> - Use the `map()` callback to render each value in the array on a separate line

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use the `map()` callback to render a `<p>` element for each of the object's values. If you used `Object.values()`, use the value's index as the `key` for the `<p>` element.
```

### Task #7

Based on the given requirements, implement `AppointmentsPage` as a stateful component that handles the logic for adding new appointments and listing current appointments.

This component will:
- Have three props:
  - The current list of appointments
  - The current list of contacts

>   - A function for adding a new appointment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - A callback function for adding a new appointment.
```

- Render an `AppointmentForm` and a `TileList`.
- Keep track of the current title, contact, date and time entered into the form.
- Add a new appointment on form submission.
- Clear the form on submission. 

### Hint

- Add `{ useState }` to the `'react'` import statement
- Import `AppointmentForm` and `TileList`

> - Make `props` a function parameter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Extract the appointments array, the contacts array, and the callback function for adding appointments from the `props` value passed as an argument to `AppointmentsPage`
```

> - The appointment info state variables should default to an empty string using `useState('')`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The four state variables holding the form's appointment data  should each default to an empty string using `useState('')`
```

> - The handle submit function should add contact function and set the contact info state variable to `''` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `handleSubmit()` function should call the callback function for adding a new appointment with the data from the form. It should also reset the appointment info state variables to their default values.
```

### Task #8

Based on the given requirements, implement `AppointmentForm` as a stateless component that renders a web form to collect the necessary appointment information.

This component will:
- Have 9 props:
  - The variables for appointment title, contact, date and time
  - The setter functions for appointment title, contact, date and time

>   - The function that handles the form submission.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The `handleSubmit` callback function that handles the form submission
```

- Render a `form` with:

>   - The `onSubmit` attribute set

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The `onSubmit` attribute set to the callback function passed in via `props`
```

  - 3 controlled `input` components, one for each piece of appointment data

>   - a `ContactPicker` component with the contacts list as its props.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - a `ContactPicker` component with the contacts list passed in via props.
```

  - A submit button

> - Use `getTodayString()` to set the minimum date of the data `input`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use `getTodayString()` to set the `min` attribute of the date `input`.
```

### Hint

- Import the `ContactPicker` component
- Make `props` a function parameter
- Use `<form onSubmit={props.handler} >` for the form
- The children of the form should be `<input>`s of `type` text, date, time and submit
- The `value` attribute of the input fields should be set to the associated variable in `props`

> - The `onChange` attributes of the input fields should be set to a callback function that passes `e.target.value` to the the associated setter function

Reviewer: See my comments for task #4 and make the language here match the suggested changes.

> - The `onChange` attributes of the input fields should be set to a callback function that passes `e.target.value` to the the associated setter function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `onChange` attribute for each of the `<input>` elements and the `ContacgtPicker` should be set to a callback function that passes `e.target.value` to the associated setter function
```

### Task #9

Based on the given requirements, implement `ContactPicker` as a stateless component that renders a drop down list of all contact names.

This component will:
- Have 2 props:
  - The array of contacts

>   - A function to handle `onChange`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - A callback function to handle when the `onChange` event is triggered
```

> - Render a `select` element that defines the `onChange` attribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Render a `select` element with the `onChange` attribute set to the callback passed in via props.
```

- Have a default first `option` element that indicates no contact is selected.

> - Iteratively add `option` elements using the contacts array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Iteratively add `option` elements using the values from the contacts array passed in via props.
```

### Hint

> - Make `props` a function parameter

Reviewer: Extract the array of contacts and the callback for handling `onChange` events from the `props` value passed as an argument to `ContactPicker`

> - Use `<select>` with the `onChange` attribute set to the handler in `props`

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
